@node Multicast Forwarding Engine Abstraction (MFEA)
@section Multicast Forwarding Engine Abstraction (MFEA)

The Multicast Forwarding Engine Abstraction (MFEA) provides a
system-independent interface for other multicast routing components
(MLD/IGMP and PIM).  See the XORP MFEA documentation for more
information.

@menu
* MFEA Configuration::
* MFEA Information::
* Example MFEA Configuration::
@end menu

@node MFEA Configuration
@subsection MFEA Configuration

The MFEA is enabled by default, however each multicast routing
interface must be explicitly configured.

The following commands are used to configure the MFEA.

@subsubsection MFEA Router Commands

@deffn  {Command} {router mfea} {}
@deffnx {Command} {router mfea6} {}
Enable the MFEA.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {no router mfea} {}
@deffnx {Command} {no router mfea6} {}
Disable the MFEA.
@end deffn

@subsubsection MFEA Interface Commands

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip mfea} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 mfea6} {}
Enable multicast forwarding for an interface.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {no ip mfea} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {no ipv6 mfea6} {}
Disable multicast forwarding for an interface.
@end deffn

@subsubsection MFEA Debug Commands

@deffn  {Command} {debug mfea} {}
@deffnx {Command} {debug mfea6} {}
Enable MFEA debugging.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {no debug mfea} {}
@deffnx {Command} {no debug mfea6} {}
Disable MFEA debugging.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {debug mfea trace} {}
@deffnx {Command} {debug mfea6 trace} {}
Enable trace-level MFEA debugging.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {no debug mfea trace} {}
@deffnx {Command} {no debug mfea6 trace} {}
Disable trace-level MFEA debugging.
@end deffn


@node MFEA Information
@subsection MFEA Information

The following commands provide information about the MFEA.

@subsubsection MFEA Information Commands

@deffn  {Command} {show ip mfea dataflow} [A.B.C.D[/M]]
@deffnx {Command} {show ipv6 mfea6 dataflow} [X:X::X:X[/M]]
Display information about user-space MFEA dataflow filters for the
specified multicast group or group range (all groups if omitted).
Kernel multicast filter information is not shown.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {show ip mfea interface} [IFNAME]
@deffnx {Command} {show ipv6 mfea6 interface} [IFNAME]
Display information about interface @var{IFNAME}, or all interfaces
the MFEA is aware of if no interface is specified.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {show ip mfea interface-address} [IFNAME]
@deffnx {Command} {show ipv6 mfea6 interface-address} [IFNAME]
Display address information about interface @var{IFNAME}, or all
interfaces the MFEA is aware of if no interface is specified.
@end deffn


@node Example MFEA Configuration
@subsection Example MFEA Configuration

Example IPv4 MFEA configuration:
@example
debug mfea
!
interface eth0
 ip mfea
!
router mfea
@end example

Minimal IPv4 MFEA configuration:
@example
interface eth0
 ip mfea
!
router mfea
@end example

Example IPv6 MFEA configuration:
@example
debug mfea6
!
interface eth0
 ipv6 mfea6
!
router mfea6
@end example

Minimal IPv6 MFEA configuration:
@example
interface eth0
 ipv6 mfea6
!
router mfea6
@end example
