@node Multicast Listener Discovery (MLD) / Internet Group Management Protocol (IGMP)
@section Multicast Listener Discovery (MLD) / Internet Group Management Protocol (IGMP)

The IPv6 Multicast Listener Discovery protocol (MLD) and IPv4 Internet
Group Management Protocol (IGMP) manage multicast group membership.

@menu
* MLD/IGMP Configuration::
* MLD/IGMP Information::
* Example MLD/IGMP Configuration::
@end menu

@node MLD/IGMP Configuration
@subsection MLD/IGMP Configuration

IGMP or MLD is enabled by default, however each interface must be
explicitly configured.

The following commands are used to configure MLD/IGMP.

@subsubsection MLD/IGMP Router Commands

@deffn  {Command} {router igmp} {}
@deffnx {Command} {router mld6} {}
Enable IGMP/MLD.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {no router igmp} {}
@deffnx {Command} {no router mld6} {}
Disable IGMP/MLD.
@end deffn

@subsubsection MLD/IGMP Interface Commands

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip igmp} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 mld6} {}
Enable IGMP/MLD for an interface.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {no ip igmp} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {no ipv6 mld6} {}
Disable IGMP/MLD for an interface.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip igmp version} {1--3}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 mld6 version} {1--2}
Set the protocol version.  The default version for IGMP is 2; the
default for MLD is version 1.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip igmp ip-router-alert-option-check} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 mld6 ip-router-alert-option-check} {}
Enable IP router alert option checking.  IP router alert option
checking is disabled by default.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {no ip igmp ip-router-alert-option-check} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {no ipv6 mld6 ip-router-alert-option-check} {}
Disable IP router alert option checking.  IP router alert option
checking is disabled by default.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip igmp query-interval} {1--1024}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 mld6 query-interval} {1--1024}
Set the IGMP/MLD query interval (in seconds).  The default query
interval is 125 seconds.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip igmp last-member-query-interval} {1--1024}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 mld6 last-member-query-interval} {1--1024}
Set the last-member query interval (in seconds).  The default value is
1 second.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip igmp query-max-response-time} {1--1024}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 mld6 query-max-response-time} {1--1024}
Set the maximum query response interval (in seconds).  The default
value is 10 seconds.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip igmp robust-count} {2--10}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 mld6 robust-count} {2--10}
Set the robustness variable count.  The default value is 2.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip igmp alternative-subnet} A.B.C.D/M
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 mld6 alternative-subnet} X:X::X:X/M
Associate the given subnet with an interface.  Traffic from any
additional subnets associated with an interface is treated as if
coming from a local subnet.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {no ip igmp alternative-subnet} [A.B.C.D/M]
@deffnx {Interface Command} {no ipv6 mld6 alternative-subnet} [X:X::X:X/M]
Remove an additional subnet association from an interface.  The
optional argument specifies the subnet to remove from an interface
(all additional subnets if omitted).
@end deffn

@subsubsection MLD/IGMP Debug Commands

@deffn  {Command} {debug igmp} {}
@deffnx {Command} {debug mld6} {}
Enable IGMP/MLD debugging.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {no debug igmp} {}
@deffnx {Command} {no debug mld6} {}
Disable IGMP/MLD debugging.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {debug igmp trace} {}
@deffnx {Command} {debug mld6 trace} {}
Enable trace-level IGMP/MLD debugging.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {no debug igmp trace} {}
@deffnx {Command} {no debug mld6} {}
Disable trace-level IGMP/MLD debugging.
@end deffn


@node MLD/IGMP Information
@subsection MLD/IGMP Information

The following commands provide information about MLD/IGMP.

@subsubsection MLD/IGMP Information Commands

@deffn  {Command} {show ip igmp group} [A.B.C.D @dots{}]
@deffnx {Command} {show ipv6 mld6 group} [X:X::X:X @dots{}]
Display information about MLD/IGMP group membership for the given
multicast group(s) (all groups if omitted).
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {show ip igmp interface} [IFNAME]
@deffnx {Command} {show ipv6 mld6 interface} [IFNAME]
Display MLD/IGMP information about interface @var{IFNAME} (all
interfaces if omitted).
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {show ip igmp interface-address} [IFNAME]
@deffnx {Command} {show ipv6 mld6 interface-address} [IFNAME]
Display address information about MLD/IGMP interface @var{IFNAME} (all
interfaces if omitted).
@end deffn


@node Example MLD/IGMP Configuration
@subsection Example MLD/IGMP Configuration

Example IGMP configuration:
@example
debug igmp
!
interface eth0
  ip igmp
  ip igmp version 2
  ip igmp query-interval 125
  ip igmp last-member-query-interval 1
  ip igmp query-max-response-time 10
  ip igmp robust-count 2
  ip igmp alternative-subnet 10.62.1.0/24
!
router igmp
@end example

Minimal IGMP configuration:
@example
interface eth0
  ip igmp
!
router igmp
@end example

Example MLD configuration:
@example
debug mld6
!
interface eth0
  ipv6 mld6
  ipv6 mld6 version 2
  ipv6 mld6 query-interval 125
  ipv6 mld6 last-member-query-interval 1
  ipv6 mld6 query-max-response-time 10
  ipv6 mld6 robust-count 2
  ipv6 mld6 alternative-subnet 2001:8::/64
!
router mld6
@end example

Minimal MLD configuration:
@example
interface eth0
  ipv6 mld6
!
router mld6
@end example
