@node OSPFv3
@chapter OSPFv3

@command{ospf6d} is a daemon support OSPF version 3 for IPv6 network.
OSPF for IPv6 is described in RFC2740.

@menu
* OSPF6 router::                
* OSPF6 area::                  
* OSPF6 interface::             
* Redistribute routes to OSPF6::  
* Showing OSPF6 information::   
* OSPF6 Configuration Examples::
@end menu

@node OSPF6 router
@section OSPF6 router

@deffn {Command} {router ospf6} {}
@end deffn

@deffn {OSPF6 Command} {instance-id @var{instance}} {}
Set the OSPFv3 Instance ID used, where 0 <= @var{instance} <= 255.
@end deffn

@deffn {OSPF6 Command} {router-id @var{a.b.c.d}} {}
Set router's Router-ID.
@end deffn

@deffn {OSPF6 Command} {interface @var{ifname} area @var{area}} {}
Bind interface to specified area, and start sending OSPF packets.  @var{area} can
be specified as 0.
@end deffn

@deffn {OSPF6 Command} {protocol-traffic-class @var{<0-255>}} {}
@deffnx {OSPF6 Command} {no protocol-traffic-class} {}
Configure the IPv6 traffic class used for outgoing protocol packets.
The 8-bit traffic class field in the IPv6 header is set to the given
value or reset to the default value.
@end deffn

@node OSPF6 area
@section OSPF6 area

Area support for OSPFv3 is not yet implemented.

@node OSPF6 interface
@section OSPF6 interface

@deffn {Interface Command} {ipv6 ospf6 cost COST} {}
Sets interface's output cost.  Default value is 1.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {ipv6 ospf6 hello-interval HELLOINTERVAL} {}
Sets interface's Hello Interval.  Default 40
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {ipv6 ospf6 dead-interval DEADINTERVAL} {}
Sets interface's Router Dead Interval.  Default value is 40.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {ipv6 ospf6 retransmit-interval RETRANSMITINTERVAL} {}
Sets interface's Rxmt Interval.  Default value is 5.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {ipv6 ospf6 priority PRIORITY} {}
Sets interface's Router Priority.  Default value is 1.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {ipv6 ospf6 transmit-delay TRANSMITDELAY} {}
Sets interface's Inf-Trans-Delay.  Default value is 1.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {ipv6 ospf6 link-lsa-suppression} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {no ipv6 ospf6 link-lsa-suppression} {}
Enable or disable link-LSA suppression for the interface.  The
origination of a link-LSA is not required for non-broadcast, non-NBMA
interfaces when other routers on the link can determine the
appropriate next-hop address by some other mechanism (e.g., the source
address of Hello packets).

Link-LSA suppression is disabled by default.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {ipv6 ospf6 allow-immediate-hello} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {no ipv6 ospf6 allow-immediate-hello} {}
Enable or disable sending immediate reply Hellos for the interface.
When enabled, a Hello will be sent immediately in response to
receiving a Hello from a neighbor whose state is less than 2-Way.  The
frequency of sending immediate Hellos decreases exponentially unless
the state of a less-than-2-Way neighbor increases.

Immediate reply Hellos are enabled for MDR interfaces and disabled for
other interface types by default.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {ipv6 ospf6 relax-neighbor-inactivity} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {no ipv6 ospf6 relax-neighbor-inactivity} {}

When relaxed neighbor inactivity is enabled, the Inactivity Timer for
a neighbor is restarted whenever an OSPF protocol packet is received
from the neighbor and the neighbor's state is at least 2-Way.  Without
relaxed neighbor inactivity the Inactivity Timer for a neighbor is
only restarted when a Hello is received.

Relaxed neighbor inactivity is disabled by default.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {ipv6 ospf6 adjacency-formation-limit <1-65535>} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {no ipv6 ospf6 adjacency-formation-limit} {}

Limit the number of adjacencies being concurrently formed through an
interface.

When enabled, the number of neighbors in state ExStart, Exchange, or
Loading is limited to the configure value.  This does not limit the
number of fully adjacent neighbors.

There is no limit by default.
@end deffn

@node Redistribute routes to OSPF6
@section Redistribute routes to OSPF6

@deffn {OSPF6 Command} {redistribute static} {}
@deffnx {OSPF6 Command} {redistribute connected} {}
@deffnx {OSPF6 Command} {redistribute ripng} {}
@end deffn

@node Showing OSPF6 information
@section Showing OSPF6 information

@deffn {Command} {show ipv6 ospf6 [INSTANCE_ID]} {}
INSTANCE_ID is an optional OSPF instance ID. To see router ID and OSPF
instance ID, simply type "show ipv6 ospf6 <cr>".
@end deffn

@deffn {Command} {show ipv6 ospf6 database} {}
This command shows LSA database summary.  You can specify the type of LSA.
@end deffn

@deffn {Command} {show ipv6 ospf6 interface} {}
To see OSPF interface configuration like costs.
@end deffn

@deffn {Command} {show ipv6 ospf6 neighbor} {}
Shows state and chosen (Backup) DR of neighbor.
@end deffn

@deffn {Command} {show ipv6 ospf6 request-list A.B.C.D} {}
Shows requestlist of neighbor.
@end deffn

@deffn {Command} {show ipv6 route ospf6} {}
This command shows internal routing table.
@end deffn

@node OSPF6 Configuration Examples
@section OSPF6 Configuration Examples

Example of ospf6d configured on one interface and area:

@example
interface eth0
 ipv6 ospf6 instance-id 0
!
router ospf6
 router-id 212.17.55.53
 area 0.0.0.0 range 2001:770:105:2::/64
 interface eth0 area 0.0.0.0
!
@end example
