@node Protocol Independent Multicast (PIM)
@section Protocol Independent Multicast (PIM)

Protocol Independent Multicast (PIM) is a multicast routing protocol.
Currently, only sparse mode (PIM-SM) is implemented.

@menu
* PIM Configuration::
* PIM Information::
* Example PIM Configuration::
@end menu

@node PIM Configuration
@subsection PIM Configuration

PIM is enabled by default, however each interface must be explicitly
configured.

The following commands are used to configure PIM.

@subsubsection PIM Router Commands

@deffn  {Command} {router pim} {}
@deffnx {Command} {router pim6} {}
Enable PIM.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {no router pim} {}
@deffnx {Command} {no router pim6} {}
Disable PIM.
@end deffn

@deffn  {PIM Command} {ip pim rp-address} A.B.C.D [A.B.C.D/M [@code{priority} 0--255 [@code{hash-mask-length} 4--32]]]
@deffnx {PIM Command} {ipv6 pim6 rp-address} X:X::X:X [X:X::X:X/M [@code{priority} 0--255 [@code{hash-mask-length} 8--128]]]
Configure a static Rendezvous Point (RP).  The first argument is
required and specifies the RP address.  The optional second argument
is the range of multicast groups for the given RP; the default value
is all multicast groups (224.0.0.0/4 for IPv4, ff00::/8 for IPv6).
The priority of the given RP can be set with the @code{priority}
option (a smaller value has higher priority); the default value is
192.  The @code{hash-mask-length} option controls the length of the
mask used when hashing for load balancing; the default value is 30 for
IPv4, 126 for IPv6.
@end deffn

@deffn  {PIM Command} {no ip pim rp-address} [A.B.C.D [A.B.C.D/M]]
@deffnx {PIM Command} {no ipv6 pim6 rp-address} [X:X::X:X [X:X::X:X/M]]
Remove static Rendezvous Point (RP) configuration.  The first argument
is an optional RP address; all static RPs are removed if omitted.  The
optional second argument is a range of multicast groups for the given
RP.
@end deffn

@deffn  {PIM Command} {ip pim bsr-candidate} IFNAME [A.B.C.D/M [(@code{scoped}|@code{non-scoped}) [@code{priority} 0--255 [@code{hash-mask-length} 4--32]]]]
@deffnx {PIM Command} {ipv6 pim6 bsr-candidate} IFNAME [X:X::X:X/M [(@code{scoped}|@code{non-scoped}) [@code{priority} 0--255 [@code{hash-mask-length} 8--128]]]]
Configure this router as a BootStrap Router (BSR) candidate.  The
first argument is required and specifies the interface whose address
is used in bootstrap messages.  The optional second argument is a
multicast group prefix for this BSR configuration; the default value
is 224.0.0.0/4 for IPv4, ff00::/8 for IPv6.  The optional third
argument determines if the previous multicast group prefix refers to a
multicast scope zone, @code{scoped}, or a range of multicast groups,
@code{non-scoped}; the default value is @code{non-scoped}.  The BSR
priority of this router can be set with the @code{priority} option (a
larger value has higher priority); the default value is 1.  The
@code{hash-mask-length} option controls the length of the mask used
when hashing for load balancing; the default value is 30 for IPv4, 126
for IPv6.
@end deffn

@deffn  {PIM Command} {no ip pim bsr-candidate} [A.B.C.D/M [(@code{scoped}|@code{non-scoped})]]
@deffnx {PIM Command} {no ipv6 pim6 bsr-candidate} [X:X::X:X/M [(@code{scoped}|@code{non-scoped})]]
Remove this router as a BootStrap Router (BSR) candidate.  The
optional first argument is a multicast group prefix for this BSR
configuration.  The optional second argument determines if the
previous multicast group prefix refers to a multicast scope zone,
@code{scoped}, or a range of multicast groups, @code{non-scoped}; the
default value is @code{non-scoped}.
@end deffn

@deffn  {PIM Command} {ip pim rp-candidate} IFNAME [A.B.C.D/M [(@code{scoped}|@code{non-scoped}) [@code{priority} 0--255 [@code{holdtime} 0--65535]]]]
@deffnx {PIM Command} {ipv6 pim6 rp-candidate} IFNAME [X:X::X:X/M [(@code{scoped}|@code{non-scoped}) [@code{priority} 0--255 [@code{holdtime} 0--65535]]]]
Configure this router as a RP candidate.  The first argument is
required and specifies the interface whose address is used as the RP
candidate.  The optional second argument is a multicast group prefix
for this configuration; the default value is 224.0.0.0/4 for IPv4,
ff00::/8 for IPv6.  The optional third argument determines if the
previous multicast group prefix refers to a multicast scope zone,
@code{scoped}, or a range of multicast groups, @code{non-scoped}; the
default value is @code{non-scoped}.  The RP priority of this router
can be set with the @code{priority} option (a larger value has higher
priority); the default value is 1.  The @code{holdtime} option sets
the holdtime advertised to the BSR; the default value is 150 seconds.
@end deffn

@deffn  {PIM Command} {no ip pim rp-candidate} IFNAME [A.B.C.D/M [(@code{scoped}|@code{non-scoped})]]
@deffnx {PIM Command} {no ipv6 pim6 rp-candidate} IFNAME [X:X::X:X/M [(@code{scoped}|@code{non-scoped})]]
Remove this router as a RP candidate.  The first argument is required
and specifies the interface whose address is the RP candidate.  The
optional second argument is a multicast group prefix for this
configuration.  The optional third argument determines if the previous
multicast group prefix refers to a multicast scope zone,
@code{scoped}, or a range of multicast groups, @code{non-scoped}; the
default value is @code{non-scoped}.
@end deffn

@deffn  {PIM Command} {ip pim spt-threshold} @code{interval} 3--2147483647 @code{bytes} 0--4294967295
@deffnx {PIM Command} {ipv6 pim6 spt-threshold} @code{interval} 3--2147483647 @code{bytes} 0--4294967295
Configure the bitrate threshold for switching from the RP tree to the
source-specific shortest path tree.  The @code{interval} argument
specifies the measure time in seconds.  The @code{bytes} argument
specifies the number of bytes received during the measurement interval
needed to trigger switching to the shortest path tree.
@end deffn

@deffn  {PIM Command} {no ip pim spt-threshold} {}
@deffnx {PIM Command} {no ipv6 pim6 spt-threshold} {}
Disable switching to the shortest path tree when the configured
bitrate is exceeded.
@end deffn

@deffn  {PIM Command} {ip pim protocol-type-of-service} 0--255
@deffnx {PIM Command} {ipv6 pim6 protocol-traffic-class} 0--255
Configure the IP type of service or IPv6 traffic class used for
outgoing protocol packets.  The 8-bit type of service or traffic class
field in the IP/IPv6 header is set to the given value.
@end deffn

@deffn  {PIM Command} {no ip pim protocol-type-of-service} {}
@deffnx {PIM Command} {no ipv6 pim6 protocol-traffic-class} {}
Use the default IP type of service or IPv6 traffic class when sending
protocol packets.
@end deffn

@deffn  {PIM Command} {ip pim register-source} IFNAME
@deffnx {PIM Command} {ipv6 pim6 register-source} IFNAME
Use a domain-wide address associated with the given network interace
as the source address of PIM register messages sent to rendezvous
points (RPs).
@end deffn

@deffn  {PIM Command} {no ip pim register-source} {}
@deffnx {PIM Command} {no ipv6 pim6 register-source} {}
Use a default source address when sending PIM register messages to
rendezvous points (RPs).
@end deffn

@subsubsection PIM Interface Commands

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip pim} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 pim6} {}
Enable PIM for an interface.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {no ip pim} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {no ipv6 pim6} {}
Disable PIM for an interface.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip pim version} 2--2
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 pim6 version} 2--2
Set the protocol version.  The default version 2.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip pim passive} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 pim6 passive} {}
Configure the PIM interface to be passive.  A passive PIM interface
does not send or receive PIM control packets.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {no ip pim passive} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {no ipv6 pim6 passive} {}
Configure the PIM interface to not be passive; this enables sending
and receiving PIM control packets.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip pim ip-router-alert-option-check} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 pim6 ip-router-alert-option-check} {}
Enable IP router alert option checking.  IP router alert option
checking is disabled by default.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {no ip pim ip-router-alert-option-check} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {no ipv6 pim6 ip-router-alert-option-check} {}
Disable IP router alert option checking.  IP router alert option
checking is disabled by default.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip pim hello-triggered-delay} 1--255
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 pim6 hello-triggered-delay} 1--255
Set the randomized delay (in seconds) before sending the first PIM
hello message.  The default value is 5 seconds.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip pim hello-interval} 1--18724
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 pim6 hello-interval} 1--18724
Set the PIM hello interval (in seconds).  The default value is 30
seconds.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip pim hello-holdtime} 0--65535
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 pim6 hello-holdtime} 0--65535
Set the advertised hello holdtime (in seconds).  The default value is
105 seconds
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip pim dr-priority} 0--4294967295
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 pim6 dr-priority} 0--4294967295
Set the Designated Router (DR) priority for an interface.  The default
value is 1.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip pim propagation-delay} 0--65535
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 pim6 propagation-delay} 0--65535
Set the propagation delay, in milliseconds.  The default value is 500
msec.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip pim override-interval} 0--65535
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 pim6 override-interval} 0--65535
Set the override interval, in milliseconds.  The default value is 2500
msec.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip pim is-tracking-support-disabled} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 pim6 is-tracking-support-disabled} {}
Disable tracking support.  Tracking support is enabled by default.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {no ip pim is-tracking-support-disabled} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {no ipv6 pim6 is-tracking-support-disabled} {}
Enable tracking support.  Tracking support is enabled by default.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip pim accept-nohello-neighbors} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 pim6 accept-nohello-neighbors} {}
Enable accepting neighbors who haven't sent a hello message first.
Accepting no-hello neighbors is disabled by default.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {no ip pim accept-nohello-neighbors} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {no ipv6 pim6 accept-nohello-neighbors} {}
Disable accepting neighbors who haven't sent a hello message first.
Accepting no-hello neighbors is disabled by default.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip pim join-prune-interval} 1--65535
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 pim6 join-prune-interval} 1--65535
Set the join/prune interval, in seconds.  The default value is 60
seconds.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {ip pim alternative-subnet} A.B.C.D/M
@deffnx {Interface Command} {ipv6 pim6 alternative-subnet} X:X::X:X/M
Associate the given subnet with an interface.  Traffic from any
additional subnets associated with an interface is treated as if
coming from a local subnet.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Interface Command} {no ip pim alternative-subnet} [A.B.C.D/M]
@deffnx {Interface Command} {no ipv6 pim6 alternative-subnet} [X:X::X:X/M]
Remove an additional subnet association from an interface.  The
optional argument specifies the subnet to remove from an interface
(all additional subnets if omitted).
@end deffn

@subsubsection PIM Debug Commands

@deffn  {Command} {debug pim} {}
@deffnx {Command} {debug pim6} {}
Enable PIM debugging.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {no debug pim} {}
@deffnx {Command} {no debug pim6} {}
Disable PIM debugging.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {debug pim trace} {}
@deffnx {Command} {debug pim6 trace} {}
Enable trace-level PIM debugging.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {no debug pim trace} {}
@deffnx {Command} {no debug pim6 trace} {}
Disable trace-level PIM debugging.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {debug pim neighbor} {}
@deffnx {Command} {debug pim6 neighbor} {}
Enable debugging PIM neighbor events.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {no debug pim neighbor} {}
@deffnx {Command} {no debug pim6 neighbor} {}
Disable debugging PIM neighbor events.
@end deffn


@node PIM Information
@subsection PIM Information

The following commands provide information about PIM.

@subsubsection PIM Information Commands

@deffn  {Command} {show ip pim bsr} [A.B.C.D/M [(@code{scoped}|@code{non-scoped})]]
@deffnx {Command} {show ipv6 pim6 bsr} [X:X::X:X/M [(@code{scoped}|@code{non-scoped})]]
Display bootstrap router information.  The first optional argument
specifies a multicast group prefix for this request; the default value
is 224.0.0.0/4 for IPv4, ff00::/8 for IPv6.  The optional second
argument determines if the previous multicast group prefix refers to a
multicast scope zone, @code{scoped}, or a range of multicast groups,
@code{non-scoped}; the default value is @code{non-scoped}.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {show ip pim bsr-rp} [A.B.C.D/M [(@code{scoped}|@code{non-scoped})]]
@deffnx {Command} {show ipv6 pim6 bsr-rp} [X:X::X:X/M [(@code{scoped}|@code{non-scoped})]]
Display candidate RP information learned from the bootstrap process.
The first optional argument specifies a multicast group prefix for
this request; the default value is 224.0.0.0/4 for IPv4, ff00::/8 for
IPv6.  The optional second argument determines if the previous
multicast group prefix refers to a multicast scope zone,
@code{scoped}, or a range of multicast groups, @code{non-scoped}; the
default value is @code{non-scoped}.
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {show ip pim interface} [IFNAME]
@deffnx {Command} {show ipv6 pim6 interface} [IFNAME]
Display PIM information about interface @var{IFNAME} (all interfaces
if omitted).
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {show ip pim interface-address} [IFNAME]
@deffnx {Command} {show ipv6 pim6 interface-address} [IFNAME]
Display address information about PIM interface @var{IFNAME} (all
interfaces if omitted).
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {show ip pim join} [A.B.C.D[/M]]
@deffnx {Command} {show ipv6 pim6 join} [X:X::X:X[/M]]
Display PIM multicast routing state information for the given
multicast group or group range (all groups if omitted).
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {show ip pim join-all} [A.B.C.D[/M]]
@deffnx {Command} {show ipv6 pim6 join-all} [X:X::X:X[/M]]
Display all PIM multicast routing state information, including
internal implementation entries, for the given multicast group or
group range (all groups if omitted).
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {show ip pim mfc} [A.B.C.D[/M]]
@deffnx {Command} {show ipv6 pim6 mfc} [X:X::X:X[/M]]
Display Multicast Forwarding Cache (MFC) entries for the given
multicast group or group range (all groups if omitted).
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {show ip pim neighbor} [IFNAME]
@deffnx {Command} {show ipv6 pim6 neighbor} [IFNAME]
Display PIM neighbor information for the given interface (all
interfaces if omitted).
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {show ip pim mrib} [A.B.C.D]
@deffnx {Command} {show ipv6 pim6 mrib} [X:X::X:X]
Display information from the PIM Multicast Routing Information Base
(MRIB) for the given destination address (all entries if omitted).
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {show ip pim rp} [A.B.C.D]
@deffnx {Command} {show ipv6 pim6 rp} [X:X::X:X]
Display candidate RP information for the given multicast group (all
candidate RP information if omitted).
@end deffn

@deffn  {Command} {show ip pim scope} {}
@deffnx {Command} {show ipv6 pim6 scope} {}
Display PIM multicast scope zone information.
@end deffn


@node Example PIM Configuration
@subsection Example PIM Configuration

Example IPv4 PIM configuration:
@example
debug pim
!
interface eth0
  ip pim
  ip pim version 2
  ip pim hello-interval 30
  ip pim dr-priority 1
  ip pim join-prune-interval 60
  ip pim alternative-subnet 10.62.1.0/24
!
router pim
  ip pim spt-threshold interval 7 bytes 29
  ip pim rp-address 1.2.3.4 224.3.2.0/24 priority 10
@end example

Minimal IPv4 PIM configuration:
@example
interface eth0
  ip pim
!
router pim
@end example

Example IPv6 PIM configuration:
@example
debug pim6
!
interface eth0
  ipv6 pim6
  ipv6 pim6 version 2
  ipv6 pim6 hello-interval 30
  ipv6 pim6 dr-priority 1
  ipv6 pim6 join-prune-interval 60
  ipv6 pim6 alternative-subnet 2001:8::/64
!
router pim6
  ipv6 pim6 spt-threshold interval 7 bytes 29
  ipv6 pim6 rp-address 2001:1::1 ff4e::/16 priority 10
@end example

Minimal IPv6 PIM configuration:
@example
interface eth0
  ipv6 pim6
!
router pim6
@end example
