@node Multicast Routing
@chapter Multicast Routing

The @command{xpimd} daemon supports IPv4 or IPv6 multicast routing
based on the @url{http://www.xorp.org/, XORP} implementation of
IGMP/MLD and PIM-SM.  The current implemetation uses code from XORP
version 1.4.

The @command{xpimd} multicast routing daemon includes three main
components: the Multicast Forwarding Engine Abstraction (MFEA), The
IPv6 Multicast Listener Discovery (MLD) protocol and IPv4 Internet
Group Management Protocol (IGMP), and the Protocol Independent
Multicast-Sparse Mode (PIM-SM) protocol.

Multicast routing configuration commands are described in the
following sections.  Additional information can be found in the
@url{http://www.xorp.org/releases/1.8-CT/docs/user_manual/user_manual.pdf,
XORP User Manual}.

@menu
* Invocation::
* Multicast Forwarding Engine Abstraction (MFEA)::
* Multicast Listener Discovery (MLD) / Internet Group Management Protocol (IGMP)::
* Protocol Independent Multicast (PIM)::
@end menu

@node Invocation
@section Invocation

The following command-line options can be used when running @command{xpimd}:
@table @code

@item -d,--daemon
Run as a daemon; disabled by default.

@item -f,--config_file @var{config_file}
Use @var{config_file} as the configuration file.

@item -i,--pid_file @var{pid_file}
Write the process identifier to @var{pid_file}.

@item -A,--vty_addr @var{address}
Set the vty address to @var{address}.

@item -P,--vty_port @var{port_number}
Set the vty port number to @var{port_number}.

@item -u,--user @var{user}
Run as user @var{user}.

@item -g,--group @var{group}
Run as group @var{group}.

@item -v,--version
Print the program version and exit.

@item -C,--dryrun
Check the configuration and exit.

@item -4,--ipv4
@itemx -6,--ipv6
Set the address family used to be IPv4 or IPv6; IPv4 by default.

@item -h
Print a help message and exit.

@end table

@include mfea.texi
@include mld6igmp.texi
@include pim.texi
